what's up and welcome back to my channel
if you're new here my name is April
Whitney I am a certified personal
trainer and nutrition coach who
specializes in specializes in petite
health and Lana's so today I'm going to
be talking about what is different about
petite Fitness I'm gonna go over the
five top reasons why health and fitness
is different for petite women from a
scientific standpoint and let's jump in
if you already liked this video of
course you can started please give it a
thumbs up and subscribe for more content
tailored to t women so you guys as a
shorter woman and Bryce apt I mean short
because you can be petite and be any
weight any size any shape but I'm just
talking about height so as a petite
woman yourself as a short woman yourself
have you ever noticed that when you gain
a pound or lose a pound it is more
noticeable on you than on your taller
friends that's because we're smaller and
small changes like that have a bigger
impact or visually also physiologically
on us because it just shows more so
reason number one why petite fitness is
different than fitness for regular
people people of advertised height is
our metabolisms actually run slower than
a taller woman or a taller man so what
is metabolism metabolism is the energy
required to take care of all of the
physiological actions that occur inside
your body on a given day that that
requires energy all of these things so
there are five main components your
metabolism there is your basal metabolic
rate this is how many calories you're
burning at rest to carry out all of your
normal activities whether you're just
walking around you're chilling you're
just chilling you're watching Netflix
this is the number of calories that
you're going to need to burn just to
maintain your current state there is
your resting metabolic rate this is all
the calories that will be burned while
you're resting while you're asleep
typically in a fasted state
there's the thermic effect of food so
this is all of the energy that gets put
into digesting and absorbing nutrients
breaking them down in the body there is
your exercise activities so obviously
going to the gym working out strength
training cardio that's your activity
that's all the calorie calorie spent
exercising and finally there's
non-exercise activity thermogenesis or
meat so these are the calories that are
burned maybe when you go on a brisk walk
or you're just fidgeting sitting down
it's all the calories that are burning
through activity that's not necessarily
your exercise so you guys looking at
those five components of your metabolism
the very first one
BMR accounts for over seventy percent of
your energy expenditure and that's why
we're going to take a look at that one
in particular because if you can get
your BMR to be efficient gas running
machine then you're gonna see results
and your body is going to generally have
a higher faster metabolism so let's talk
about what determines BMR your BMR is
determined by a couple factors it's
determined by your age your sex your
weight and the data your height you guys
BMR and your metabolism is partly
influenced by your height the taller you
are the faster your BMR the shorter you
are the slower your BMR are your
metabolism will be so the good news with
this is that BMR is not a static number
it's not gonna be like you're born and
that's the BMR you have for your whole
life fortunately BMR is a dynamic number
and there are many ways in which you can
increase it your BMR will increase when
you eat food it will increase when you
exercise during the time of that
exercise and sometimes a little bit more
in a prolonged way afterwards it will
increase from increasing your muscle
tissue so the amount of lean muscle
tissue you have in your body that's
because it requires more energy more
calories to sustain a body that has a
muscle than one that doesn't have any
muscle
so if you focus all your efforts on
basically increasing your BMR you're
going to have a much better time getting
the body you want as a petite staying
fit and healthy and overall just being
able to eat the foods you like enjoy the
foods without me on diet all the time if
you can just get your metabolism to be
up and running quick and fast reason
number two why Fitness is different for
petite women is that machines at the gym
can be harmful and even dangerous for
petite women so let's give like a little
history of machines they were made back
when bodybuilding was becoming a very
much bigger thing and when it was
basically it was mean many years ago it
wasn't popular in the 70s I believe it
became popular a lot popularized and
then someone decided to go I forget his
name someone decided to go and create a
bunch of machines that were designed to
teach people how to get a bodybuilders
physique without having to hire a
personal trainer so you guys are smart
and capable so like that logics trash
now you can learn how to lift weights
with dumbbells you don't need a trainer
necessarily in person with you anymore
so so really machines were made by men
for men of average height so you know
probably five six or even taller like 30
years ago and guys who haven't been not
many advancements and machines like the
machines are pretty much the same as
they've always been of course there's
more adjustments now but they're still
really too large for us and what this
ends up meaning is that the range of
motion on these machines since it's
designed for someone who's taller it's
going to put your body into more
compromised positions more stressful
joint angles and just undesirable
positions where it's not even going to
be natural for you to move in that range
of motion since it's not built for your
body on all machines can put petite
women
provides position at worst and a
completely useless position at best
reason number three why Fitness is
different for petits dieting can have
the opposite effect on petite women that
it does for taller women or women of
average height in general if you're
dieting your metabolism is going to slow
down because you're eating less and
you're also over time going to lose
really precious muscle tissue so you
will be purposefully decreasing well
maybe not purposefully but you will be
decreasing telling your body to slow
down in decrease its BMR or your
metabolism so because we already have
such a miniscule calorie maintenance
meaning we have already slowed
metabolism to start with meaning our
daily caloric intake is already lower
than what other taller women can handle
imagine if we as 40 start dieting
anymore you drop below 1000 calories a
day you are now to effectively telling
your whole body shut down to totally
slow down to have a really slow
metabolism and yes you may lose a few
pounds at first but what's gonna happen
is suddenly your maintenance I was gonna
drop way below your BMR everything's
gonna slow down and now if you try to
even come above that you're gonna start
being any weight so for booty women it's
really not ideal to diet you'll lose
muscle tissue you're still slow down
your metabolism and you'll only be
eating a few hundred pounds a day which
is not good for your long-term health
it's not good for getting the number of
micronutrients you need in a day and it
certainly isn't going to help you reach
your goal of toning up the solution for
petite women a better way to do it would
be to increase your activity going out
so you're increasing your calorie
expenditure you're basically
manipulating the energy equation so
going and adding a proper strength
training program to your regimen and in
increasing your cardio and we'll get to
cardio in a very particular way that is
designed for your goals as a petite
that's gonna help raise the thresholds
how many calories you can eat in a day
so that you can start to eat more and
once you've built up your metabolism to
a higher threshold then you can start to
eat and a deficit in a diet
only once you've got your metabolism up
you put on some muscle
you could then diet you can also do
things like hard cycling but we're not
going to go into that in this video the
most important thing to know is that
dieting is totally screwing you up if
you're also not exercising and the best
way to go on a diet is to not at all as
a petite but to eat it your maintenance
calories and make sure that you're
following a proper strength training
regimen and that's just in time for me
to tell you guys about my newest online
program it's called the petite power
program and it's a 12-week
transformational program enrollment is
officially open open a few days ago it's
closing at the very end of January and
we all are starting together on February
1st this is not a guide this is you
getting knee-highs your coach to help
you transform your body as a petite
using strategies that are specific to us
as petite women it's super interactive
it's online so you'll do the workouts on
your own but it is very experiential you
will not feel alone at any point and
it's affordable so if you're ready to
make a change 2019 and just hop into a
program that's made for you and have a
coach along the way that super cares
about you and your progress then go
ahead and send me an email at small
etics at gmail.com or you can comment
below and I will send you the
information you can also visit my
website I'll put the link below small
annex comm and you can click the enroll
button and check out the entire page of
information on there so reason number
four back to the program
why Fitness is different for petites is
because cardio can actually really
destroy us as fatty women especially
this is like the trifecta of terrible
ideas as a petite woman dieting doing
tons of cardio and not doing any
strength training at all those three
things combined if you're dieting you're
only doing cardio and no strength
training that is a surefire way to have
no muscle tone to be miserable to not
eating a lot of calories everyday you
don't want to do that so the reason why
cardio can be detrimental to petite
women is because it's a very stressful
form of of calorie expenditure so if
you're hopping on the treadmill and
running for 30 to 45 minutes this is
going to release stress hormones
especially cortisol which can just tell
it basically tell your body to hold on
to fat cardio in general is not bad for
Missy women we do a benefit from it in a
lot of ways for overall health but if
you're trying to tone up doing cardio is
going to do the opposite you're gonna
lose your muscle tone especially if
you're doing it without a strength
training program
the other issue cardio is when women
increase their cardio Sun you have
nowhere to eat women it causes a huge
backlash in our diet because you can
imagine if you say okay it's a new year
I'm gonna hit the ground running I'm
gonna do 30-minute run three times a
week you're totally changing your energy
balance to the point where you are going
to be so hungry you guys you're going to
be starving because your body is going
to try to replace the calories lost
through exercise and because we already
have such a low calorie threshold you're
gonna be fighting against hunger like no
other so you don't want to put yourself
in that position it would be smarter to
do a strength training program and
slowly very slowly introduce say
steady-state cardio if that's your goal
to have is pretty program you don't
necessarily need it for results but if
that's your goal
start with twice a week ten-minute
incline walks do not just go off the
walls and add all this hours of cardio
and Sprint's and hit that will totally
mess up your energy balance and make it
very hard to a stick to anything in the
long term and be get any results at all
okay the fifth and final reason is
everything that the media is saying and
everything you see around is designed
for women of average or taller Heights
and it can be
really confusing and just we're trying
to follow the advice from people who are
have faster metabolisms who are in a
different situation and it's just not
working that's not working like how many
times have you guys try to program you
bought a $20 guide off of Instagram or
you tried something you've seen on
YouTube or Pinterest and it's just not
doing the trick right it's because it's
not tailored to your body type they
don't know you they don't know what you
need and this is all scientific
information that's out there especially
about the metabolism these are equations
that have been they were these
predictive equations were made probably
50 years with over six years ago and
this is how the fitness industry
functions using these energy expenditure
equations but they've never taken a look
at what happens if you're a lot shorter
and on the other end of the spectrum
tall women have different a different
situation as well but they always try to
group us all together and say we all
need the same thing and we're all gonna
get results doing the same thing and
that's just not true so if you guys are
looking for a approach that is unique to
you as a petite woman and incorporates
all the science and through metabolism
in your height I highly highly recommend
jumping in the petite power program it
is very limited space in the program
it's kicking off February 1st so if you
want to jump in now is the time you can
again visit my websites Mullenix comm
and enroll today it's a transformative
program it's can change your life and I
believe this so much and I know this so
much that I have a 100% money-back
guarantee if you are not happy with your
how you're feeling and how you're doing
after 30 days so you guys I hope you
loved this video so much if you did
please give it a thumbs up and subscribe
for more information tailor to petite
women Susie and I hope you have a great
day and this empowered you in some way
its petite and just so you know I'm here
for you as your boutique coach you can
always set me up for anything especially
on Instagram I'm active on their all day
buy me as small etics
and I will see you guys soon